docs/docs/getting-started.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Getting Started

## 1. Start the Agent

```bash
perry agent run
```

Run this on the machine you want to access remotely. The Web UI will be available at `http://localhost:7391`.

If the machine is on your Tailscale network, you can access it from any device at `http://<hostname>:7391`. With [Tailscale Serve](https://tailscale.com/kb/1312/serve) configured, Perry will automatically advertise itself over HTTPS.

## 2. Create a Workspace

```bash
perry start myproject
```

Or with a git repository:

```bash
perry start myproject --clone git@github.com:user/repo.git
```

## 3. Connect

**CLI:**
```bash
perry shell myproject
```

**Web UI:**
Open the Web UI, click your workspace, then open a terminal session.

![Web UI Terminal](/img/webui-terminal.png)

You can also view AI coding agent sessions from the Sessions tab:

![Web UI Sessions](/img/webui-sessions.png)

## Connecting from Another Machine

To use the CLI from a different machine (like your laptop):

1. Install Perry on that machine
2. Point it to your agent:

```bash
perry config worker <hostname>:7391
```

Replace `<hostname>` with your machine's Tailscale hostname or IP address. Now all `perry` commands will run against the remote agent.

## That's It

You now have an isolated development environment with:
- Full Linux environment (Ubuntu 24.04)
- Docker support inside the container
- All your configured credentials synced

## Common Commands

```bash
perry list              # List workspaces
perry stop myproject    # Stop workspace
perry start myproject   # Start stopped workspace
perry delete myproject  # Remove workspace
perry logs myproject    # View container logs
perry sync myproject    # Re-sync credentials
```

## Next Steps

- [Configure SSH keys and credentials](./configuration/overview.md)
- [Set up AI coding assistants](./configuration/ai-agents.md)
- [Enable remote access with Tailscale](./configuration/tailscale.md)

Commit message:

docs: comprehensive Tailscale documentation
- Add quick start section for fast setup
- Document both Agent Access (Tailscale Serve) and Workspace Networking
- Cover all configuration methods: Web UI, CLI wizard, config.json, env var
- Add use cases, security considerations, and troubleshooting
- Update overview.md to include tailscale in config example
- Add Tailscale section to getting-started guide

docs/docs/getting-started.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Getting Started

## 1. Start the Agent

```bash
perry agent run
```

Run this on the machine you want to access remotely. The Web UI will be available at `http://localhost:7391`.

If the machine is on your Tailscale network, you can access it from any device at `http://<hostname>:7391`. With [Tailscale Serve](https://tailscale.com/kb/1312/serve) configured, Perry will automatically advertise itself over HTTPS.

## 2. Create a Workspace

```bash
perry start myproject
```

Or with a git repository:

```bash
perry start myproject --clone git@github.com:user/repo.git
```

## 3. Connect

**CLI:**
```bash
perry shell myproject
```

**Web UI:**
Open the Web UI, click your workspace, then open a terminal session.

![Web UI Terminal](/img/webui-terminal.png)

You can also view AI coding agent sessions from the Sessions tab:

![Web UI Sessions](/img/webui-sessions.png)

## Connecting from Another Machine

To use the CLI from a different machine (like your laptop):

1. Install Perry on that machine
2. Point it to your agent:

```bash
perry config worker <hostname>:7391
```

Replace `<hostname>` with your machine's Tailscale hostname or IP address. Now all `perry` commands will run against the remote agent.

## That's It

You now have an isolated development environment with:
- Full Linux environment (Ubuntu 24.04)
- Docker support inside the container
- All your configured credentials synced

## Optional: Enable Tailscale Networking

Want to access services running in your workspace from any device? Configure Tailscale:

1. Generate an auth key at [Tailscale Admin Console](https://login.tailscale.com/admin/settings/keys)
2. Go to **Settings > Tailscale** in the Web UI
3. Paste your auth key and save

Now workspaces get their own hostname on your tailnet:

```bash
# Access a dev server from any device
curl http://perry-myproject:3000

# SSH directly into workspace
ssh workspace@perry-myproject
```

See [Tailscale Integration](./configuration/tailscale.md) for full details.

## Common Commands

```bash
perry list              # List workspaces
perry stop myproject    # Stop workspace
perry start myproject   # Start stopped workspace
perry delete myproject  # Remove workspace
perry logs myproject    # View container logs
perry sync myproject    # Re-sync credentials
```

## Next Steps

- [Configure SSH keys and credentials](./configuration/overview.md)
- [Set up AI coding assistants](./configuration/ai-agents.md)
- [Enable remote access with Tailscale](./configuration/tailscale.md)
